Thelegends say that we know her by her wings—the wings that only we can see—and because wanting
her kills every other desire of love.
The same legends also carry warnings that such fated love may, sometimes, be the possession and
the obsession of one, and only one, of the two souls twinned by destiny. But wisdom, in one sense, is
the opposite of love. Love survives in us precisely because it isn’t wise.


Fate needs accomplices, and the stones in destiny’s walls are mortared with small and
heedless complicities such as those. I look back, now, and I know that the naming moment, which
seemed so insignificant then, which seemed to demand no more than an arbitrary and superstitious yes
or no, was in fact a pivotal moment in my life.


The past reflects eternally between two
mirrors—the bright mirror of words and deeds, and the dark one, full of things we didn’t do or say.


No-one, and nothing, could really
hurt me. No-one, and nothing, could make me very happy. I was tough, which is probably the saddest
thing you can say about a man.


The
great principles and the noble virtues are all very well, in the long run of history, but from one day to
the next, it’s money that keeps us going


There is a difference between the dishonest
bribe and the honest bribe, Didier Levy once said to me. The dishonest bribe is the same in every
country, but the honest bribe is India’s alone.


The only force
more ruthless and cynical than the business of big politics is the politics of big business


Civilisation, after all, is defined by what
we forbid, more than what we permit.’


The first rule of black business everywhere is: never let anyone know what you’re thinking

always know what the other thinks of you.

The truth is a bully
we all pretend to like.


Your heart starts to feel like an overcrowded lifeboat. You
throw your pride out to keep it afloat, and your self-respect and your independence. After a while you
start throwing people out—your friends, everyone you used to know. And it’s still not enough. The
lifeboat is still sinking, and you know it’s going to take you down with it.




There’s a truth that’s deeper than experience. It’s beyond what we see, or even what we feel. It’s an
order of truth that separates the profound from the merely clever, and the reality from the perception.
We’re helpless, usually, in the face of it; and the cost of knowing it, like the cost of knowing love, is
sometimes greater than any heart would willingly pay. It doesn’t always help us to love the world, but
it does prevent us from hating the world. And the only way to know that truth is to share it, from heart
to heart, just as Prabaker told it to me, just as I’m telling it to you now.


It is the mark of the age in which we
live that the style becomes the attitude, instead of the attitude becoming the style.




‘I think that we all, each one of us, we all have to earn our future,’ she said slowly. ‘I think the
future is like anything else that’s important. It has to be earned. If we don’t earn it, we don’t have a
future at all. And if we don’t earn it, if we don’t deserve it, we have to live in the present, more or
less forever. Or worse, we have to live in the past. I think that’s probably what love is—a way of
earning the future.’

‘I mean that you are making things to be more difficult than they are, or need to be. The facts of life
are very simple. In the beginning we feared everything—animals, the weather, the trees, the night sky
—everything except each other. Now we fear each other, and almost nothing else. No-one knows why
anyone does anything. No-one tells the truth. No-one is happy. No-one is safe. In the face of all that is
so wrong with the world, the very worst thing you can do is survive. And yet you must survive. It is
this dilemma that makes us believe and cling to the lie that we have a soul, and that there is a God
who cares about its fate. And now you have it.’

‘No man is as cool as he looks,

If you have to ask the question, you have no
right to the answer.

the real trick in life is to want nothing, and to succeed in getting it.’


Prabaker’s face moved from apprehension to anguish.


each tried
with unstinting vigour and violence to remove him from the seat.

the doctrine
of necessity.

and thebeggar, my heart, began to hope and plead.



I watched her walk, her dark silhouette a part of the night itself.


That last hour with her was a Borsalino test,

Sometimes you have to surrender, Karla said, before you win.



One of the reasons
why we crave love, and seek it so desperately, is that love is the only cure for loneliness, and shame,
and sorrow. But some feelings sink so deep into the heart that only loneliness can help you find them
again. Some truths about yourself are so painful that only shame can help you live with them. And
some things are just so sad that only your soul can do the crying for you.



no happiness exists without its
woe, no wealth without its cost, and no life without its full measure, sooner or later, of sorrowing and
death.

When we’d made our toilet, washed our faces, and cleaned our teeth

dream is the place where a wish and a fear meet. When the
wish and the fear are exactly the same, he said, we call the dream a nightmare.


If fate doesn’t make you laugh, Karla said, in
one of my first conversations with her, then you just don’t get the joke.

her dark silhouette a part of the night itself


subdued by a night-sultriness, moist with stars.


with a heart-wrenching rush of adrenaline, I pushed the door

There was no sound but my own breath in the wind and the crash of deep water on
the rocks, three metres below the wall.


. We can compel men not to be bad, but we cannot compel them to be good,
don’t you find?



The worst thing about corruption as a system of governance, Didier once said, is that it
works so well.

‘There is no act of faith more beautiful than the generosity of the very poor,’ Abdullah said


Sometimes the lion must roar, just to remind the horse of his fear

we swallowed our
laughter in smiles.


‘The truth is that there are no good men, or bad men,’ he said. ‘It is the deeds that have goodness or
badness in them. There are good deeds, and bad deeds. Men are just men—it is what they do, or
refuse to do, that links them to good and evil.


drumming his fingers on his knees


 Johnny sulked off, vanishing in a twist of lane.

Friendship is also a kind of medicine, and the markets
for it, too, are sometimes black.


justice is not only the way we punish those who do wrong. It is
also the way we try to save them.



Poverty and pride are devoted blood brothers until one, always and
inevitably, kills the other.


Fear and guilt are the dark angels that haunt rich
men,


I sometimes think that
the size of our happiness is inversely proportional to the size of our house.’

